These are the Cloudcode hacks that took
me from a complete beginner to mass
producing workflows and building
websites, apps, and AI agents in real
time. So today we're going to be going
from beginner hacks all the way to
advanced power user stuff, and the best
ones are saved at the end. All right, so
starting off with our beginner hacks,
number one is to run  init on
every project. So if you've already got
an existing project with files already
in there, the first thing you should do
is open it up and type  init.
Cloudcode will then scan your entire
code base, your folders, your files, and
it will generate a cloud.md file, which
is basically like a cheat sheet for that
project. It'll map out your
architecture, your conventions, and any
key files that you have in there. So
instead of having to re-explain your
project every session, Cloud will
basically just contextualize everything
and initialize everything and know what
you're working with. And if you're
starting a new project from scratch,
then you can have Cloudcode help you
create that cloud.md file yourself just
by explaining what's the goal of this
project, what tech stack you want to
use, or any rules or key folders and
files. All right, number two is to set
up a status line. So if you're working
in the terminal, you can type
status line and tell Cloudcode what you
want to see. Your model, your context
percentage, cost, whatever. It basically
generates a little script that sits at
the bottom of the terminal, so as you're
talking every single time, you can just
see that status line. It's kind of like
a mini dashboard for your session. So
it's really helpful to always be able to
see how much context you have left, so
you can avoid context rot. Hack number
three is using voice input. So Cloudcode
just shipped a native  voice
command, which means you can literally
just talk to your terminal and have it
code for you now. So it's still rolling
out, it will be out for everyone soon,
but another good hack would just be to
use an app to actually be able to voice
tate anywhere. So if you want to see the
tool that I use, you can check out the
description. Now I can just talk and
words will appear anywhere. Hack number
four is to keep your context small. So
don't dump your entire code base into a
conversation, only give Cloud what it
needs for the current task. So try to
break big problems into small focused
steps. The less noise in the context
window, the better Cloud performs. It's
simple, but a lot of people ignore this.
Hack number five is to use
context to find your token bloat. So if
you do  context, you'll see
exactly what's eating your tokens,
whether that's system prompts or file
contents, MCP servers, whatever it is.
All of that gets broken down into
percentages. So if your session feels a
little bloated, you can actually
investigate it, diagnose where the
problem is, and then restructure. Hack
number six is to compact at 60% and also
clear between tasks. So when your
context hits around 60%, then type
compact and Cloudcode will
compress your conversation history so
you can keep going without losing
important stuff. And something
interesting is that you can actually do
a  compact, but you can tell it
to keep certain things. Like, "Hey,
compact, but keep all of the API
integration decisions and database
schema." So Cloud will automatically
shrink everything down and preserve the
stuff that you need to keep in there.
And if you're actually going to switch
to a completely different task and you
don't need that conversation history,
then use  clear to just wipe the
slate clean and you're starting from a
new conversation. But luckily you still
have your cloud.md, you still have all
the other files, so it's not like you're
actually starting from scratch. So hack
number seven is to always start in plan
mode. So that means you can hit shift
tab to cycle between modes or you just
choose it manually. And once Cloud's in
plan mode, it can still read, it can
still research, but it won't actually
change anything. So Cloud will outline
the steps, it will ask clarifying
questions, and it will map out the
approach before writing a single line of
code, which has been shown to improve
the quality. Now once you like the plan,
you switch out of plan mode, tell it to
execute, and this alone will
dramatically reduce how many times that
you have to go back and correct Cloud.
Hack number eight, we have to treat
Cloud like a junior developer, which
means don't always give it direct
commands like, "Write me a function that
does X," but try to understand how you
can give it problems. So saying, "How
should we handle growth tracking?" and
let it think through the approach,
because when it makes its own
assumptions and it thinks through
decisions, you can ask it to explain
those. And this has also been shown to
get better outputs when Cloud reasons
through the problem first. So it's like
plan mode, but now you're having it
think a little bit deeper. Okay, hack
number nine is to make Cloud ask
questions. So a lot of times in plan
mode, it will do this natively, but you
can actually tell it to invoke its ask
user question tool. You can tell it,
"Continuously ask me questions until
you're 95% confident that you understand
exactly what I need and exactly what you
need to do." And once again, this
alignment helps you from having to go
back and forth with, you know, three or
four rounds of revisions. All right,
hack number 10 is build self-checking
into the to-do lists. So you know how
Cloud makes a to-do list when it starts
building? Well, you can actually build
verification steps right into that list.
So let's say one to-do is to build a
website. The very next to-do could be
take a screenshot of the website and
check that everything looks right. And
then maybe the next step is to open
Chrome DevTools to use the browser and
make sure that there are no actual
errors in functionality. So you're now
baking quality checks directly into the
execution plan, so Cloud isn't just
building stuff and handing it to you for
feedback, but now it's building
something, checking it, making sure
everything's good, and then getting your
feedback. And another cool thing that I
like to do here is say, "Don't move on
to your next to-do until you're 95%
confident that that to-do is good."
Because it's AI, it's really hard to
one-shot what you're looking for, but
you'd rather have it one-shot 90% of the
way there rather than one-shot 60 or
65%. Okay, so those were our beginner
hacks. Now let's step it up a little
bit. These next ones are for the people
who are already kind of using Cloudcode
a little bit and want to move faster.
All right, so hack number 11 is to
deploy sub-agents for parallel work. Try
telling the main session to use
sub-agents in your prompt when you're
working on complex problems. Cloud will
spin up isolated sub-agents that each
have their own context window. They can
each be using their own model, and each
agent works in parallel, which means the
main thread stays clean while the
sub-agents go to research, write tests,
or explore different approaches. When
they're done, they all report back to
that main agent with their findings. So
it's like having a team of developers
instead of just having one. And you can
even pair this with the model hack for
cheaper tokens, which means you can have
all the sub-agents running on Haiku for
simpler stuff and your main thread can
stay on Opus. All right, hack number 12
is to build custom skills. This means
you can create reusable prompt files in
your cloud/skills directory. So for
example, you can have one skill called
techdebt.md, which tells Cloud exactly
how to scan for technical debt. Or you
can have one called codereview.md, which
knows exactly how to review your code
base. And then all you have to do is
invoke that skill in natural language or
just use the  command directly,
and it will run that entire workflow
consistently every single time. You can
even commit them to GitHub and your
whole team can instantly use them as
well. So you can automate your actual
SOPs. All right, so hack number 13 is
something that I alluded to a little bit
earlier, but that's basically just using
Haiku for sub-agents. Because you can
set the model for the sub-agents that
you spin up, when you have simple tasks
or processing a large amount of data,
then use Haiku. It's way cheaper and it
still gets the job done. Specifically,
if you need a sub-agent to go scrape a
ton of different articles, read hundreds
of thousands of tokens, and then just
give Opus, give your main agent, just a
small summary or the key highlights. It
just doesn't really make sense to have
such a heavy and expensive model reading
hundreds of thousands of tokens if it
just needs a few bits of information.
And if you do this right, it can really
keep your costs down without sacrificing
quality where it matters. All right,
hack number 14 is to constantly be
refreshing your cloud.md file. Once
there's a new discovery about your
project, update the cloud.md. Once
you've made some new skills, update the
cloud.md. You want Cloud to be logging
new patterns, new gotchas, and any new
conventions that it discovered during
your session. So next time that you
start it up, it already knows all of
this. This will help prevent repeat
mistakes and it will make Cloud smarter
about you, your business, your project,
all that kind of stuff over time. But
here's the catch, you don't want to let
it bloat, because the cloud.md file is
basically the system prompt and it gets
loaded into every single conversation.
And everything in there is going to eat
up at your context window. So I try to
keep mine simple and only put the most
important information in there. I like
to keep it between 150 and 200 lines
max. If it starts getting longer than
that, then it's time to trim down some
things, which leads perfectly into the
next hack, number 15, which is to have
cloud.md route to other files. Because
it potentially eats so many tokens, you
want to keep it lean, but you do have a
lot of information in there. But what's
cool is you can route it to different
places. So you can have it link out to
separate files for stuff like style
guides or business context or reference
docs. Just point to those files in the
cloud.md so Cloud knows exactly where to
look, and then you're also not wasting
tokens on information that it doesn't
always need. Because in its system
prompt, it doesn't need to know the
exact status of a certain project, but
it does need to know exactly where to go
look to find that information. Hack
number 16 is to exit early and re-ask.
So if you notice that Cloud starts going
down the wrong path, don't just wait for
it to finish. Hit escape, correct
course, and then re-prompt. Every token
that it spends going the wrong direction
is just wasted context. So steer tight
and steer early. At the end of the day,
it is AI. Hack number 17 is to challenge
outputs aggressively. So if Cloud gives
you something that's just okay, push
back. Say, "Scrap that. Do a more
elegant version." Or, "This isn't good
enough. Try again with a completely
different approach." Cloud will often
give you a dramatically better output on
the second try when you set a higher
bar, and now it knows what to not do.
The key is, once it comes back with
something better, tell it to update
itself, whether that be the skill or the
cloud.md, so it doesn't make that sort
of mistake again. Hack number 18 is to
use  rewind for quick undos. So
if you make a wrong turn, just try using
rewind and Cloud will roll back
to a previous point in the conversation
without you having to start over. So
it's super quick, super clean. Hack
number 19 is using hooks for
notifications. So if you type
hooks, you can set up a notification
hook, or you can just have Cloudcode do
this for you in completely natural
language. So for example, what I like to
do is when I have a Cloud finish up a
session or finish a chat, it sends me an
actual noise notification. Because now I
can work on something else on my
computer, or I can literally have 15
different sessions of Cloudcode running,
and if I hear that noise, I know that
one of them is done and needs some more
input from me. Hack number 20 is using
screenshots. Just remember that Cloud
can actually see, and this is a huge
unlock, which means you can feed it
error messages, which means you can feed
it, you know, inspiration websites. You
can also do a really cool self-check
loop, where you can say things like,
"Take a screenshot of the website and
tell me if the layout looks right." And
it will literally screenshot it, analyze
it visually, and tell you what's off. So
if you remember one of the hacks from
earlier where I said to have it check
itself, when I'm building websites, I
basically have it design the website,
screenshot, and then implement new
changes, and then do that again. And so
it does like three passes of building
and screenshots before it even gives me
V1. And in that flow, the V1 that it
gives me is so much better than a V1
that it used to give me. Hack number 21
is to use Chrome DevTools. So Cloud can
open a browser, it can interact with an
app, it can check the functionality of
things, and so it's kind of like the
screenshot loop, but instead of for like
websites and design, it's for actual
functionality of like apps and buttons.
This is huge for front-end work, so
definitely give it a try. But this also
means that it can do things like filling
out forms and potentially like
reCAPTCHAs and stuff. But this is also
huge because if there's not an explicit
API somewhere, it can go in and manually
do things. I think that it could also
solve captchas, but it's probably better
if you're already signed in somewhere
and all it has to do is navigate, click
buttons, fill out things. Hack number 22
is to clone inspiration sites. So, you
can take screenshots of sites that you
really like and feed it to Claude and
say, "Make it look like this." Claude
will recreate the design patterns
without making it look like generic AI
slop. And this is huge for front-end
quality because you could also use the
site as inspiration by taking some of
the actual like HTML styling and feed
that into Claude, too. So, yes, Claude
could essentially clone a website, but
what you want to do is take that as kind
of a template and give it your own
touch. Okay, so now we're going to move
on to some more advanced stuff. These
hacks are for people who really want to
push Claude code to its limits, so let's
go. All right, hack number 23 is to run
parallel sessions with Git work trees.
Normally, when you're working on a
project, you've got it in one folder
with all your files in it. So, if you
want to run two different sessions in
the same folder at the same time, they
might overwrite each other's work. And
that's where work trees come in. So,
think of work tree like basically making
a parallel copy of your project, except
it's way more efficient than actually
copying the folder. You just type in
Claude   work tree and then
that feature name. So, Claude will then
create an isolated workspace on its own
branch. You can then open up another
terminal and type in the same thing with
a different feature name and it will
open up a different branch. So, now you
can be working on the same project at
the same time without having those
coding agents step on each other. You
can have three, four, or five of these
things going at once. And when you're
done, you can have them just merge the
branches back together just like you
would with any other Git branch. So, all
the work can save back to the main
project, once again, without overriding
each other's files. All right, hack
number 24 is to use API endpoints
instead of MCP servers. Depending on the
situation, but here's what I mean by
that. MCP servers are great because you
can look at all the different tools and
execute any of them. But, they load
their entire tool definitions into the
context window. So, if you're tight on
tokens, sometimes it's better to just
use direct API endpoints instead. So,
for example, let's say you're using
Notion and you only actually need to be
able to read one database. It makes no
sense to show Claude how to do all of
the other functions if for this specific
project you only have to read one file.
So, instead, just hardcode in that
endpoint and now you're saving tons and
tons of tokens. All right, hack number
25 is to use  loop for recurring
tasks. So, you can type, "Hey, every 5
minutes check in on the deployment." And
Claude will rerun that prompt in that
same session every single 5 minutes
unless you close out of that session.
You can set it to monitor a PR, check
error logs, pull a build, whatever. It
runs in the background and then only
interrupts you when something actually
needs your attention. You can even set
one-time reminders in natural language
like remind me at 3:00 p.m. to check in
with the team on X. Now, the only caveat
here is these actual loops will only
last for 3 days. So, if you need a
scheduled automation that's a little bit
longer term, then you're going to want
to use the desktop scheduled tasks.
Although, the only difference here is
every time one of those tasks spin up,
it's an individual session, so it
doesn't have that context memory. Number
26 is to host on a VPS for always-on
sessions. So, if you want to run Claude
code on a remote server, it'll stay
running even when your laptop is closed,
which means you can SSH in whenever you
need to interact, which means you can
talk to it through Telegram anytime.
This is perfect for long-running tasks
where you don't want to baby-sit a local
terminal. Hack number 27 is you can use
remote control from your phone. So, this
is a pretty new feature, but Claude code
now lets you control local sessions from
your phone or any browser. You start a
task at your local desk and then you
walk away and you can keep steering it
from your phone. Your code never
actually leaves your local machine, but
it's just the remote connection is on
your phone. So, you can start something
heavy, go grab a coffee, go on a walk,
and you can keep building from your
pocket. Hack number 28 is there's no SQL
data analytics. So, you can connect CLI
tools like BigQuery's BQ tool to Claude
code. And then you can just ask
questions in plain English like, "What
were our top 10 revenue sources last
quarter?" And Claude will instantly
translate that into the right query, run
it, and then give you that answer. No
SQL required. And this should work for
any CLI-based tool. Number 28 is ultra
think. When you need Claude code to
really think through a hard problem like
architecture decisions, complex
debugging, big refactors, or maybe it's
just not giving you the right output
after a couple prompts, try using ultra
think. You literally just type the word
and it will go all colorful and this
means it allocates the maximum thinking
budget of around 32,000 tokens before
Claude actually responds. So, don't
always use this for a simple fix, but
absolutely use it if you're making
decisions that might affect the entire
system. Or like I said, if after the
first couple tries it's not giving you
what you want. Hack 30 is to edit
permissions for safe autonomy. A lot of
people, including myself, have shown on
videos using dangerously skip
permissions to make sure that Claude can
just run without asking for approval on
every single step. And yeah, it's much
faster, but it is called dangerously
skip permissions for a reason. So, the
smarter way to go about it is to go into
your permissions and explicitly allow
the commands that you know are safe. And
then, explicitly deny anything that's
destructive like deletes or removes. And
now you can actually get to the point
where you have the same exact speed and
autonomy of dangerously skip permissions
without it being very dangerous. And
anything in the deny list is going to
take priority over anything in the allow
list. Hack number 31 is to use agent
teams. So, remember how we talked about
sub-agents, being able to run agents in
parallel that have fresh context, but
can't talk to each other? Agent teams
are like that, but all of the agents can
talk to each other. So, it gets really,
really cool. They share a task list,
they can communicate with each other,
and they can even assign each other
work. And you can actually talk to each
of those individual agents instead of
just having to go through the main one
and then the main one would communicate
with sub-agents. These are a little bit
more expensive and they do run longer,
but they will give you a much more
cohesive output for a big project. Hack
number 32 is Context 7 MCP. This one's a
game-changer. You can install the
Context 7 MCP server and then whenever
you need information on current
documentation, just prompt it to use
that MCP server. The problem that it
solves is that Claude's training data
has a cutoff, which means sometimes it
might suggest functions or APIs that
have been renamed or deprecated or just
don't even exist anymore. So, Context 7
fixes that because it has up to eight
version-specific technical documentation
about live code examples from thousands
of popular libraries that you probably
need with a coding assistant like
Next.js, React, MongoDB, you name it.
So, it's able to pull and read all
current documentation and then inject it
into the conversation before Claude
actually starts writing any code. So,
it's basically one command to install
and from there, all of your coding
agents are working with much more
up-to-date information and it's a huge
quality improvement. All right, so I
know that we covered a ton of
information in this video. So, what I
did is I threw all of this into a PDF
resource guide so that you can just come
back and reference them whenever you
want. That's available completely for
free inside of my free school community.
The link for that is down in the
description. But, that's going to do it
for this one. So, if you guys enjoyed or
you learned something new, please give
it a like. Definitely helps me out a
ton. And as always, I appreciate you
guys making it to the end of the video.
I will see you all in the next one.
Thanks, everyone.